[IMP] crm: update webpage visits (#7578)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/sales/crm/track_leads/prospect_visits.rst

====================
Track webpage visits
====================

Tracking the number of visits to individual webpages provides valuable insight about the interests
of website visitors. It can also be used to analyze the success of marketing campaigns.

With Odoo, tracking links can be created to track visits for any page on the website. When a lead is

> created from a website contact form, every page that the prospective customer visits is recorded on
> the lead/opportunity form in the *CRM* app.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
created from a website contact form, every page the prospective customer visits is recorded on the
lead/opportunity form in the *CRM* app.
```

.. _crm/track-leads/link-tracker:

Track a webpage
===============

Odoo's *link tracker* creates a unique tracking link for any page on the company website. The link

> contains analytics trackers that can be used in Google Analytics to track clicks and visitors, and
> in Odoo reports to track opportunities and revenue. Send this link as part of a marketing campaign
> to track clicks and webpage views for that particular campaign.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
contains analytics trackers that can be used in Google Analytics to track clicks and visitors, and
in Odoo reports to track opportunities and revenue.

It is also possible to send this link as part of a marketing campaign to track clicks and webpage
views for that particular campaign.
```

Reviewer: just breaking it up a bit...

To set up tracking for a webpage, go to any static page on the website through the

> :guilabel:`Website` app. Then click on the :guilabel:`Site` header menu at the top of the page, and
> select :guilabel:`Link Tracker`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*Website* app. Then, click on the :guilabel:`Site` header menu at the top of the page, and
select :guilabel:`Link Tracker`.
```

.. image:: prospect_visits/link-tracker-menu.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Link tracker selection from the Site header menu.

> On the Link Tracker page, the :guilabel:`URL` field is already filled in based on the webpage that
> was open when :guilabel:`Link Tracker` was clicked. However, the URL can be changed to any page on
> the website.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On the :guilabel:`Link Tracker`` page, the :guilabel:`URL` field is already filled in, based on the
webpage that was open when :guilabel:`Link Tracker` was clicked from the :guilabel:`Site` drop-down
menu. However, the :guilabel:`URL` can be changed to any page on the website.
```

> In the :guilabel:`Campaign`, :guilabel:`Medium`, and :guilabel:`Source` fields, specify a marketing
> campaign to associate with the tracking link. This information appears in the :guilabel:`Marketing`
> section of the :guilabel:`Extra Information` tab of a lead or opportunity form.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the :guilabel:`Campaign` field, specifiy a marketing campaign to associate with the tracking
link.

In the :guilabel:`Medium` field, define the specific medium used to share the link, like an email,
for example.

In the :guilabel:`Source` field, define the source from which the traffic comes from, like from
Facebook, for instance.

This information appears in the :guilabel:`Marketing` section of the :guilabel:`Extra Information`
tab of a lead or opportunity form.
```
Correct me if I'm wrong, but I don't believe each of these fields corresponds to marketing campaigns. The first one, Campaign, for sure does -- but 'Medium' and 'Source' represent different things, I believe.

Author: I think you're right! The Medium and Source are related to the Campaign, but I think I was over-generalizing, and your explanation is more accurate.

.. image:: prospect_visits/link-tracker-page.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Link tracker page.

To create a new :guilabel:`Campaign`, :guilabel:`Medium`, or :guilabel:`Source` directly from this
page, click on the field's drop-down menu, type in the name of the new campaign, medium, or source,
and then click :guilabel:`Create`.

When the above fields are filled out as desired, click the :guilabel:`Get tracked link` button to
create a unique tracking link for the selected webpage. Customize the tracked link URL in the
:guilabel:`Your tracked links` section by clicking on the :guilabel:`✏️ (pencil)` icon next to the
link.

To quickly copy the tracked link, click the :guilabel:`Copy` button to the right of the link in the
:guilabel:`Your tracked links` section.

View analytics
--------------

> To view the status of tracked links, navigate to :menuselection:`Website --> Site --> Link Tracker`.
> In the :guilabel:`Your tracked links` section, the number of clicks that each tracked link has
> gotten appears on the left side of each link.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To view the status of tracked links, navigate to :menuselection:`Website app --> Site --> Link
Tracker`. In the :guilabel:`Your tracked links` section, the number of clicks each tracked link has
gotten appears on the left side of each link.
```

To view the tracked link statistics in graph format, click on the :guilabel:`Stats` button to the
right of each link.

> On the tracked link Statistics page, toggle the graph views by clicking :guilabel:`All Time`,
> :guilabel:`Last Month`, or :guilabel:`Last Week` to the right of the :guilabel:`Statistics` heading.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Doing so reveals a separate page with information and metrics related to that specific tracked link.
In the :guilabel:`Statistics` section of that page, toggle the graph views by clicking
:guilabel:`All Time`, :guilabel:`Last Month`, or :guilabel:`Last Week`, located to the right of the
:guilabel:`Statistics` heading.
```
added a bit of specificity

.. image:: prospect_visits/link-tracker-stats.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Link tracker statistics page.

Track page views for leads/opportunities
========================================

When a lead is created from a prospective customer filling out a :ref:`contact form
<crm/track-leads/webpage-visits/contact-form>` on the website, Odoo tracks every webpage visited by
that contact. This information is available on the lead/opportunity form in the *CRM* app.

To see a prospective customer's page views, navigate to their lead/opportunity form in the

> :guilabel:`CRM` app. The :guilabel:`Page Views` smart button at the top of the form shows the total
> number of times that they viewed a page on the website (including multiple views of the same
> webpage). Click on the smart button to see an organized list of each individual page view.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*CRM* app.

The :guilabel:`Page Views` smart button at the top of the form shows the total number of times they
viewed a page on the website (including multiple views of the same webpage). Click on the smart
button to see an organized list of each individual page view.
```

.. image:: prospect_visits/page-views-smart-button.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Page views smart button on an opportunity form.

> If a prospective customer clicks on a tracked link, and then fills out a contact form on the website
> creating a lead in Odoo, then the campaign, medium, and source information from the :ref:`link
> tracker <crm/track-leads/link-tracker>` will appear on the lead form. This information appears in
> the :guilabel:`Marketing` section of the :guilabel:`Extra Information` tab of the lead or
> opportunity form.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a prospective customer clicks on a tracked link, and then fills out a contact form on the
website, thus creating a lead in Odoo, then the campaign, medium, and source information from the
:ref:`link tracker <crm/track-leads/link-tracker>` appears on the lead form.

This information appears in the :guilabel:`Marketing` section of the :guilabel:`Extra Information`
tab of the lead or opportunity form.
```

.. image:: prospect_visits/campaign-medium-source.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Campaign, medium, and source on an opportunity form.

.. _crm/track-leads/webpage-visits/contact-form:

> Configure a contact form
> ------------------------

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Contact form configuration
--------------------------
```

> To configure a website contact form to create a lead or opportunity in the *CRM* app when it is
> filled out, navigate to the contact form page on the :guilabel:`Website` app. Then, click the
> :guilabel:`Edit` button at the top right of the page to open the website editor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To configure a website contact form that creates a lead or opportunity in the *CRM* app when filled
out, navigate to the contact form page on the *Website* app. Then, click the :guilabel:`Edit` button
in the top-right of the page to open the website editor.
```

> Next, click on the form block. In the :guilabel:`Customize` tab of the website editor, in the
> :guilabel:`Form` section, set the :guilabel:`Action` to :guilabel:`Create an Opportunity`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, scroll down to the :guilabel:`Dynamic Content` portion, in the :guilabel:`Blocks` tab, on the
right sidebar of building blocks. Then, drag-and-drop the :guilabel:`Form` block on the body of the
webpage.

Click any desired field(s) of the form directly on the body of the webpage to reveal the
:guilabel:`Customize` tab of the website editor on the right sidebar. In the :guilabel:`Form`
section of the :guilabel:`Customize` tab, set the :guilabel:`Action` to :guilabel:`Create an
Opportunity`.
```

> This creates a lead in the :guilabel:`Leads` section of the *CRM* app (if the :guilabel:`Leads`
> feature is activated in the CRM settings) or an opportunity in the first stage of the pipeline (if
> the :guilabel:`Leads` feature is activated in the CRM settings) when the contact form is filled out.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Doing so creates a lead in the :guilabel:`Leads` section of the *CRM* app (if the :guilabel:`Leads`
feature is activated in the CRM settings), or an opportunity in the first stage of the pipeline (if
the :guilabel:`Leads` feature is **not** activated in the CRM settings) when the contact form is
filled out.
```
it *would* create an opportunity in the first stage of the pipeline if the Leads feature is NOT activated, right? Or do I have that mistaken?

Author: Oh yes that's what I meant to write haha, good catch!

The link can also be sent as part of a marketing campaign to track clicks and webpage views for that
particular campaign.

To set up tracking for a webpage, go to any static page on the website through the *Website* app.
Then, click on the :guilabel:`Site` header menu at the top of the page, and select :guilabel:`Link
Tracker`.

.. image:: prospect_visits/link-tracker-menu.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Link tracker selection from the Site header menu.

On the :guilabel:`Link Tracker` page, the :guilabel:`URL` field is already filled in based on the
webpage that was open when :guilabel:`Link Tracker` was clicked from the :guilabel:`Site` drop-down
menu. However, the :guilabel:`URL` can be changed to any page on the website.

In the :guilabel:`Campaign` field, specify a marketing campaign to associate with the tracking link.

In the :guilabel:`Medium` field, define the specific medium used to share the link, like `Email`,
for example.

In the :guilabel:`Source` field, define the source that the webpage traffic comes from, like
`Facebook`, for example.

This information appears in the :guilabel:`Marketing` section of the :guilabel:`Extra Information`

> tab of a lead or opportunity form.

Author: Good idea!

Time`, :guilabel:`Last Month`, or :guilabel:`Last Week` to the right of the :guilabel:`Statistics`
heading.

.. image:: prospect_visits/link-tracker-stats.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Link tracker statistics page.

Track page views for leads/opportunities
========================================

When a lead is created from a prospective customer filling out a :ref:`contact form
<crm/track-leads/webpage-visits/contact-form>` on the website, Odoo tracks every webpage visited by
that contact. This information is available on the lead/opportunity form in the *CRM* app.

To see a prospective customer's page views, navigate to their lead/opportunity form in the *CRM*
app.

The :guilabel:`Page Views` smart button at the top of the opportunity form shows the total number of
times the prospective customer viewed a page on the website (including multiple views of the same
webpage). Click on the smart button to see an organized list of each individual page view.

.. image:: prospect_visits/page-views-smart-button.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Page views smart button on an opportunity form.

If a prospective customer clicks on a tracked link, and then fills out a contact form on the

> website, thus creating a lead in Odoo, then the campaign, medium, and source information from the
> :ref:`link tracker <crm/track-leads/link-tracker>` appears on the lead form.

Reviewer 2: clarifying the cause and effect behavior a little more :D
```suggestion
website, a lead is created in Odoo with the campaign, medium, and source information from the
:ref:`link tracker <crm/track-leads/link-tracker>` automatically populated on the lead form.
```

This information appears in the :guilabel:`Marketing` section of the :guilabel:`Extra Information`
tab of the lead or opportunity form.

.. image:: prospect_visits/campaign-medium-source.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Campaign, medium, and source on an opportunity form.

.. _crm/track-leads/webpage-visits/contact-form:

Contact form configuration
--------------------------

To configure a website contact form that creates a lead or opportunity in the *CRM* app when it is
filled out, navigate to the contact form page on the *Website* app. Then, click the :guilabel:`Edit`

> button at the top right of the page to open the website editor.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
button at the top-right of the page to open the website editor.
```

Next, click on the existing contact form block on the webpage. Or to add a new form block, scroll
down to the :guilabel:`Dynamic Content` section of the :guilabel:`Blocks` tab in the website editor.
Then drag-and-drop the :guilabel:`Form` block onto the body of the webpage.

Click on any field of the form block on the webpage to reveal the :guilabel:`Customize` tab of the
website editor on the right sidebar. In the :guilabel:`Form` section, set the :guilabel:`Action` to
:guilabel:`Create an Opportunity`.

> This creates a lead in the :guilabel:`Leads` section of the *CRM* app (if the :guilabel:`Leads`
> feature is activated in the CRM settings), or an opportunity in the first stage of the pipeline (if
> the :guilabel:`Leads` feature is **not** activated in the CRM settings), when the contact form is
> filled out.

Reviewer 2: Slight rewording for brevity (;
```suggestion
Submitting a filled-out contact form creates a lead in the :guilabel:`Leads` section of the *CRM*
app. On the other hand, if the :guilabel:`Leads` feature is **not** activated in the CRM settings,
an opportunity is created in the first stage of the pipeline.
```

====================
Track webpage visits
====================

Tracking the number of visits to individual webpages provides valuable insight about the interests
of website visitors. It can also be used to analyze the success of marketing campaigns.

With Odoo, tracking links can be created to track visits for any page on the website. When a lead is
created from a website contact form, every page that the prospective customer visits is recorded on
the lead/opportunity form in the *CRM* app.

.. _crm/track_leads/link-tracker:

Track a webpage
===============

Odoo's *link tracker* creates a unique tracking link for any company website page. The link contains

> analytics trackers that can be used in Google Analytics to track clicks and visitors, and in Odoo
> reports to track opportunities and revenue.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
analytic trackers that can be used in Google Analytics to track clicks and visitors. And, in Odoo,
reports are generated to track opportunities and revenue.
```

The link can also be sent as part of a marketing campaign to track clicks and webpage views for that
particular campaign.

To set up tracking for a webpage, go to any static page on the website through the *Website* app.
Then, click on the :guilabel:`Site` header menu at the top of the page, and select :guilabel:`Link
Tracker`.

.. image:: prospect_visits/link-tracker-menu.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Link tracker selection from the Site header menu.

> On the :guilabel:`Link Tracker` page, the :guilabel:`URL` field is already filled in based on the
> webpage that was open when :guilabel:`Link Tracker` was clicked from the :guilabel:`Site` drop-down
> menu. However, the :guilabel:`URL` can be changed to any page on the website.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On the :guilabel:`Link Tracker` page, the :guilabel:`URL` field is already filled in, based on the
webpage that was open when :guilabel:`Link Tracker` was clicked from the :guilabel:`Site` drop-down
menu. However, the :guilabel:`URL` can be changed to any page on the website.
```

In the :guilabel:`Campaign` field, specify a marketing campaign to associate with the tracking link.

In the :guilabel:`Medium` field, define the specific medium used to share the link, like `Email`,
for example.

In the :guilabel:`Source` field, define the source that the webpage traffic comes from, like
`Facebook`, for example.

.. note::
   The :guilabel:`Campaign`, :guilabel:`Medium`, and :guilabel:`Source` information appears in the
   :guilabel:`Marketing` section of the :guilabel:`Extra Information` tab of a lead or opportunity
   form.

.. image:: prospect_visits/link-tracker-page.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Link tracker page.

To create a new :guilabel:`Campaign`, :guilabel:`Medium`, or :guilabel:`Source` directly from this
page, click on the field's drop-down menu, type in the name of the new campaign, medium, or source,
and then click :guilabel:`Create`.

When the above fields are filled out as desired, click the :guilabel:`Get tracked link` button to
create a unique tracking link for the selected webpage. Customize the tracked link URL in the

> :guilabel:`Your tracked links` section by clicking on the :guilabel:`✏️ (pencil)` icon next to the
> link.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:guilabel:`Your tracked links` section of the :guilabel:`Link Tracker` page by clicking on the
:guilabel:`✏️ (pencil)` icon next to the link.
```

app.

The :guilabel:`Page Views` smart button at the top of the opportunity form shows the total number of
times the prospective customer viewed a page on the website (including multiple views of the same
webpage). Click on the smart button to see an organized list of each individual page view.

.. image:: prospect_visits/page-views-smart-button.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Page views smart button on an opportunity form.

If a prospective customer clicks on a tracked link, then fills out a contact form on the website,
and the contact form is :ref:`configured to create a lead
<crm/track_leads/webpage-visits-contact-form>` in Odoo, then the campaign, medium, and source
information from the :ref:`link tracker <crm/track_leads/link-tracker>` appears on the lead form.

This information appears in the :guilabel:`Marketing` section of the :guilabel:`Extra Information`
tab of the lead or opportunity form.

.. image:: prospect_visits/campaign-medium-source.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Campaign, medium, and source on an opportunity form.

.. _crm/track_leads/webpage-visits-contact-form:

Contact form configuration
--------------------------

> To configure a website contact form that creates a lead or opportunity in the *CRM* app when it is
> filled out, navigate to the contact form page on the *Website* app. Then, click the :guilabel:`Edit`
> button at the top-right of the page to open the website editor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To configure a website contact form that creates a lead or opportunity in the *CRM* app when it is
filled out, navigate to the contact form page in the *Website* app, which is typically a
accessible via a :guilabel:`Contact Us` page in the header menu of the company website.

Then, click the :guilabel:`Edit` button at the top-right of the page to open the website editor.
```

> Next, click on the existing contact form block on the webpage. Or to add a new form block, scroll
> down to the :guilabel:`Dynamic Content` section of the :guilabel:`Blocks` tab in the website editor.
> Then drag-and-drop the :guilabel:`Form` block onto the body of the webpage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, click on the existing contact form block on the webpage. Or, to add a new form block, scroll
down to the :guilabel:`Dynamic Content` section of the :guilabel:`Blocks` tab in the website editor.
Then, drag-and-drop the :guilabel:`Form` block onto the body of the webpage.
```

Click on any field of the form block on the webpage to reveal the :guilabel:`Customize` tab of the
website editor on the right sidebar. In the :guilabel:`Form` section, set the :guilabel:`Action` to
:guilabel:`Create an Opportunity`.

With this configuration, submitting a filled-out contact form creates a lead in the
:guilabel:`Leads` section of the *CRM* app. Or, if the :guilabel:`Leads` feature is **not**

> activated in the CRM settings, it creates an opportunity in the first stage of the pipeline.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
activated in the *CRM* settings, it creates an opportunity in the first stage of the pipeline.
```

====================
Track webpage visits
====================

Tracking the number of visits to individual webpages provides valuable insight about the interests
of website visitors. It can also be used to analyze the success of marketing campaigns.

With Odoo, tracking links can be created to track visits for any page on the website. When a lead is
created from a website contact form, every page that the prospective customer visits is recorded on
the lead/opportunity form in the *CRM* app.

.. _crm/track_leads/link-tracker:

Track a webpage
===============

Odoo's *link tracker* creates a unique tracking link for any page on a company website. The link
contains analytics trackers that can be used in Google Analytics to track clicks and visitors, as
well as in Odoo Reports to track opportunities and revenue.

The link can also be sent as part of a marketing campaign to track clicks and webpage views for that
particular campaign.

> To set up tracking for a webpage, go to any static page on the website through the *Website* app.
> Then, click on the :guilabel:`Site` header menu at the top of the page, and select :guilabel:`Link
> Tracker`.

Reviewer 3: Since we are directing the user to the _Website_ app, please use a :menuselection:
```suggestion
To set up tracking for a webpage, go to any static page on the website through the
:menuselection:`Website` app. Then, click on the :guilabel:`Site` header menu at the top of the
page, and select :guilabel:`Link Tracker`.
```

View analytics
--------------

To view the status of tracked links, navigate to :menuselection:`Website app --> Site --> Link
Tracker`. In the :guilabel:`Your tracked links` section, the number of clicks that each tracked link
has gotten appears on the left side of each link.

To view the tracked link statistics in graph format, click on the :guilabel:`Stats` button to the
right of each link. Doing so reveals a separate page with information and metrics related to that
specific tracked link.

In the :guilabel:`Statistics` section of the page, toggle the graph views by clicking :guilabel:`All
Time`, :guilabel:`Last Month`, or :guilabel:`Last Week` to the right of the :guilabel:`Statistics`
heading.

.. image:: prospect_visits/link-tracker-stats.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Link tracker statistics page.

Track page views for leads/opportunities
========================================

When a lead is created from a prospective customer filling out a :ref:`contact form
<crm/track_leads/webpage-visits-contact-form>` on the website, Odoo tracks every webpage visited by
that contact. This information is available on the lead/opportunity form in the *CRM* app.

> To see a prospective customer's page views, navigate to their lead/opportunity form in the *CRM*
> app.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To see a prospective customer's page views, navigate to their lead/opportunity form in the
:menuselection:`CRM` app.
```

times the prospective customer viewed a page on the website (including multiple views of the same
webpage). Click on the smart button to see an organized list of each individual page view.

.. image:: prospect_visits/page-views-smart-button.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Page views smart button on an opportunity form.

If a prospective customer clicks on a tracked link, then fills out a contact form on the website,
and the contact form is :ref:`configured to create a lead
<crm/track_leads/webpage-visits-contact-form>` in Odoo, then the campaign, medium, and source
information from the :ref:`link tracker <crm/track_leads/link-tracker>` appears on the lead form.

This information appears in the :guilabel:`Marketing` section of the :guilabel:`Extra Information`
tab of the lead or opportunity form.

.. image:: prospect_visits/campaign-medium-source.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Campaign, medium, and source on an opportunity form.

.. _crm/track_leads/webpage-visits-contact-form:

Contact form configuration
--------------------------

To configure a website contact form that creates a lead or opportunity in the *CRM* app when it is

> filled out, navigate to the contact form page on the *Website* app, which is typically accessible
> via a :guilabel:`Contact Us` page in the header menu of the company website. Then, click the
> :guilabel:`Edit` button at the top-right of the page to open the website editor.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
filled out, navigate to the contact form page on the :menuselection:`Website` app, which is
typically accessible via a :guilabel:`Contact Us` page in the header menu of the company website.
Then, click the :guilabel:`Edit` button at the top-right of the page to open the website editor.
```

Next, click on the existing contact form block on the webpage. Or, to add a new form block, scroll
down to the :guilabel:`Dynamic Content` section of the :guilabel:`Blocks` tab in the website editor.
Then drag-and-drop the :guilabel:`Form` block onto the body of the webpage.

Click on any field of the form block on the webpage to reveal the :guilabel:`Customize` tab of the
website editor on the right sidebar. In the :guilabel:`Form` section, set the :guilabel:`Action` to
:guilabel:`Create an Opportunity`.

> With this configuration, submitting a filled-out contact form creates a lead in the
> :guilabel:`Leads` section of the *CRM* app. Or, if the :guilabel:`Leads` feature is **not**
> activated in the *CRM* settings, it creates an opportunity in the first stage of the pipeline.

Reviewer 3: No need for :guilabel:s here since this text is not on the screen on the active UI, rather it is being generally referred to
```suggestion
With this configuration, submitting a filled-out contact form creates a lead in the *Leads* section
of the *CRM* app. Or, if the *Leads* feature is **not** activated in the *CRM* settings, it creates
an opportunity in the first stage of the pipeline.
```
